So what I wanna do now is I want to
cover some of the things that Ryan
talked about in this video that
inform the way that DENO is different
from what you might be used to.
So the first concept that
is really key to DENO
is this idea of being secure by default.
When I hear things like this,
to be honest with you,
it comes off to me as paranoid,
and frankly,
not a great reason to write
an entirely new runtime.
But I would agree in so
much as saying that Node is not
a secure runtime environment.
But I would say that neither
are a lot of runtime environments.
I don't believe that C sharp or
Java are secure either.
And what I mean by that is that when
you're running these things on your local
machine, they have all
the rights that you do.
They have all the access that you do.
If you have write access to a file,
so does Node.
And most of us as developers, we either
have root access or we have admin access,
it's just kind of something that
we need on our own machines.
And even if we didn't,
it would be fairly easy for
bad NPM packages to do nasty damage
to our machines, or worse yet,
to our production environments,
if we actually deployed those things.
The browser by contrast is not like this.
The browser is a secure sandbox, your
machine is protected from the browser.
It cannot do anything to your machine
without your permission to do that,
it needs permission to
access your microphone.
It needs permission to access your camera.
It needs permission to do
access to file system,
which is supported somewhat
in Chrome not everywhere.
Your phone is like this as well,
if you think about it,
when you install a new app on your phone,
what does it do?
It asks you what for
access to your photos,
access to your contacts,
access to to send you notifications.
These environments are secure by default,
and
you have to opt out of the security
in order for them to work.
But let's look at how this
actually plays out in Node.
So in Node here, I've got this block of
code that I wrote that's not terribly
concise, but we'll talk about
what it does here in a second.
But Node has an FS module in it.
So I'm gonna switch over here
to our secure-by-default branch.
And this module allows you to
interact with the file system.
And so what this code is doing here,
we'll just sort of walk through it.
Is first thing it does is
it runs this findEnvFiles,
which basically goes through
recursively and searches for
any file on your machine that
has a .env extension in it.
And if you've worked with projects before,
you know that a lot of times we put secret
keys in .env files and then we don't
check those into source control.
They're only meant to be used locally.
And then what it does is it just
goes over each of those and
logs it out to the console.
So if we were to run this,
I'm just gonna run this and say, node.
Let me make sure I'm in
the right directory, I'm not.
So let's do.
Actually, I'm still in
my remote container.
Let me be bounce back over
to want to run it locally.
[SOUND] There we go.
So now I'm just back on my local machine.
And you'll notice that I'm using
something called the WSL here on Windows,
which is why I have what looks
like a Linux command line.
So let's move into the exercise
directory and let's just run this.
And what will happen is it's going to
search the current directory here.
It's going to look for
any files that have .env extension and
then it's going to shell out
the answer here to the terminal.
So there you can see
some of my private keys.
Okay, so this is a real problem.
Because this code has now access
files that I didn't mean for
it to access, and
it can just read anything on my machine.
There's lots of sensitive
data on my machine.
So this just goes to show
how easy it is to do that.
But this is not a shock.
We know that Node does this.
Why is this a problem?
Even if this code exists,
how do I get you to run it?
You're not going to run this code,
you know better than that.
You're a developer,
you know better than to trust a package or
code that looks nefarious.
So how do I get you to run this?
The open source world is a wonderful
place in which nobody would
ever take advantage of you.
Well, actually, that's mostly true,
that's mostly true.
But there are a small number of people
that would like to exploit that.
And anyone can publish a package to NPM.
There's not a review that happens on NPM.
If you publish a package, it's immediately
available for anybody else to consume.
So we can take that code that I just
wrote and publish as an NPM package.
Anybody who runs it, we could get their
environment variables and copy them.
But again, how do I get you to install and
run this module.
You are not gonna go install and
run this module, so how do I do that?
There is a really good talk
called how to hack a Node app
by a co-worker of mine, Asim Hussain.
Who details the extent to which the Node
ecosystem is routinely used to hack,
hijack, and otherwise exploit people and
execute malicious code.
It happens all the time.
In his talk, he goes over a bunch of
different ways that this happens.
But the most common way
that this happens is so
simple that it's almost just
disappointing how simple it is.
So there's something called typo squatting
and you may have heard of this before.
Typo squatting is when a package
names itself something similar
to a legitimate module.
So in his talk Asim gives this
example of a package called Cross Env.
And Cross Env is used in a lot of places.
It was written by Kent Dodds, I believe.
And it's a phenomenally useful package.
And what it does is it normalizes
the way that we pass in variables,
command line variables to Node so
that NPM start scripts work across
environments, Windows, Mac, Linux.
It's extremely useful.
But someone figured out that
people commonly tried to
install cross-env instead of Cross Env.
And so they created a package called
cross-env and they published it and
sure enough people started using it and
that package reads your Env files,
you know where all your secrets are and
then sends them off to a remote server.
Which is the exact same thing that
the code that I just wrote does.
That's how easy it is to get
people to execute malicious code.
While I was preparing for
this course I just happened to come across
this article from ZDNet, where this is
like three weeks ago where it says three
NPM packages found opening shells.
And then NPM responding and saying,
any computer that has this package
installed or running should be
considered fully compromised,
your entire system is fully compromised.
I mean, that's just heavy and this can
happen to anyone, it can happen to anyone.
And if you read the article, it says
that even if you remove those packages,
that your system is still not safe
because who knows what those packages did
in the background,
who knows what they ran and installed.
So Node when he says that it's not
a safe runtime, it just simply isn't.
It's wide open and
it's based on a wide open package system.
There's sort of a trade off
between convenience and security.
The fact that the package system is wide
open makes it extremely convenient to use,
but it also makes it insecure.
And Node is optimized for convenience.
DENO is optimized for security.
Which means that by default programs
have no access to your file system.
They cannot read any files.
They cannot make any HTTP requests.
They can't even read environment
variables that you pass in.
You have to explicitly grant
DENO access to do those things.
Now, this doesn't make
DENO perfectly safe and
it doesn't make you perfectly safe.
What it does is it puts you
in a position of safety, and
then it asks you to explicitly opt out
of that in order to make things work.
And that's secured by default.
It's just a different way of thinking
about how secure systems should
be built and
what a secure runtime looks like.